battle.c       
border.c       Draws the screen borders.
build.c        
cleanup.c      Cleanup routines for when the game is done.
clock.c        Manages the game clock.
collide.c      Process a collision of objects in combat.
comm.c         Handles communication with aliens.
commglue.c     Helper functions for communication with aliens.
confirm.c      Asks for confirmation on exit.
credits.c      Shows the credits after a victory.
cyborg.c       Handles combat AI.
debug.c        Debugging functions.
demo.c         Code for demo mode and game journal.
displist.c     Generic doubly linked list, which can keep its own pool
               of preallocated link structures.
               This generic list is used in various places throughout
               the game source, but without preallocaded link structures.
dummy.c        
encount.c      Handles what to do when a player encounters an alien.
fmv.c          Handles video sequences.
galaxy.c       Starmap? Hyperspace background?
gameinp.c
gameopt.c      Game options menu, including save and load selection.
gendef.c       Defines functions to be called for generating star systems.
getchar.c      Routines for entering characters with the joystick.
globdata.c     Sets up global data, creates the main ship, and the radar.
gravity.c      Maths regarding gravity in combat.
gravwell.c     Handles objects that generate gravity in combat.
grpinfo.c      Handles battle groups.
hyper.c        Handles hyperspace movement and actions.
init.c         Initialization of various game data.
intel.c        Passes input of computer or player along (?)
intro.c        Alternative functions for beginning and ending sequences
               to those in fmv, unused. (PC version?)
ipdisp.c       Something with spheres of influence?
load.c         Loading a saved game.
loadship.c     Loading of ship resource data.
master.c       Preloading of all ships?
melee.c        All supermelee menu related code.
misc.c         Miscelaneous routines related to combat but not directly to
               the fighting.
oscill.c       Code for the oscilloscope and speech sample progress slider.
               (during communication with aliens)
outfit.c       Things related to outfiting the starship.
pickmele.c     Ship selection in Supermelee (not in Full Game)
pickship.c     Ship selection in Full Game (not in Supermelee)
plandata.c     Some const data relating stars and planets.
process.c      Some combat calculations.
restart.c      Main menu (start new, load, supermelee).
save.c         Saving of a game.
settings.c     The back end of the game options.
setup.c        Initialisations for key config, and loading of various
               resources.
ship.c         Ship movement in combat.
shipstat.c     Routines for showing information about ships in combat
               (name, crew, energy). (also status.c)
shipyard.c     Things related to selection of your companion ships.
sis.c          Drawing various game state information (ship, ship name,
               captains name, hyperspace coordinates, date, melnorme credits,
               landers, storage bays, crew, fuel, game menu)
starbase.c     Code for the Earth starbase.
starcon.c      Code for various events (Arilou portal, Kohr-Ah genocide,
               Pkunk exodus, Thraddash attack Kohr-Ah, Ilwrath attack
               Thraddash, Utwig+Supox attack Kohr-Ah, Mycon colonization
               attempt, hyperspace ship spawned, zoqfot signal, zoqfot under
               attack, Shofixti return, Spathi build shield, Arilou give
               the Dnyarri to the Umgah, Yehat rebellion, Slylandro plague
               worsening)
starmap.c      Code to find a star by it's coordinates and compose star names.
state.c        Saving and loading the temporary planet information,
               like resource information.
status.c       Maintain and draw some information like the captain picture,
               crew, energy. (also shipstat.c)
tactrans.c     Code for some additional combat events (explosions, dying,
               new ship, ion trail, escape).
trans.c        Integer variant of atan2().
utils.c        Various auxiliary utils, code for pausing.
velocity.c     Velocity computation routines.
weapon.c       Routines for weapons fire in combat.


build.h
clock.h
coderes.h
collide.h
commglue.h
demo.h
displist.h
element.h
encount.h
globdata.h
hyper.h
ifontres.h
igfxres.h
ikey_con.h
imusicre.h
intel.h
ires_ind.h
isndres.h
istrtab.h
melee.h
nameref.h
races.h
resinst.h
respkg.h
restypes.h
sis.h
sounds.h
starbase.h
starcon.h
state.h
units.h
velocity.h
weapon.h

