This is the format for resources of type GFXRES (font variantion -- these
have the extension .fon in the original source).

All fonts have exactly 96 character descriptors starting with ASCII
code 32 (space).

Everything is stored MSB first unless otherwise specified.

position   length  meaning
           4       0xffffffff if the file is uncompressed.
                   Otherwise, the file is compressed. When uncompressed, the
                   file complies with the rest of the format as described
                   below.
           4       Unused in file, always 0x00000000
           1       Font leading: the vertical distance between lines of text
                   in pixels.
           1       Max ascender: the maximum extent of the font upwards from
                   the baseline in pixels.
           1       Max descender: the maximum extent of the font downwards
                   from the baseline in pixels.
           1       Char spacing: the number of pixels in between the
                   successive characters.
           1       Kern amount: the number of pixels (out of char spacing)
                   that are used for kerning (explained later). Cannot be
                   more than char spacing.
           96      Kerning table: each byte corresponds to a character:
                     bits 0-1: right-hand side kerning mask
                     bits 2-3: left-hand side kerning mask
                   For each pair of chars printed the code figures out whether
                   the kerning should be used by taking the right mask of a
                   preceeding char and ANDing it with the left mask of a
                   succeeding char. If the result is 0, the Kern amount is
                   subtracted from Char spacing.
           3       alignment padding: aligns the following char descriptors
                   on 8-byte boundary.


Then for all 96 chars:
Char descriptors (these are frame descriptors from .ani format and some
bits are most likely never used):
           4       Type index and flags (TypeIndexAndFlags)
                   Low 2 bytes:
                     bits 0-11 is the index of this frame
                     bits 12-15 are the type flags:
                        - bit 12-13:
                          - 0: (ROM_DRAWABLE)
                          - 1: Direct drawable (RAM_DRAWABLE)
                          - 2: (SCREEN_DRAWABLE)
                          - 3: (OVERLAY_DRAWABLE)
                   High 2 bytes (frame flags):
                      - bits 0-7: global PLUT to use (probably unused)
                      - bit 12: Frame is in cel format (DATA_HARDWARE)
                      - bit 13: (DATA_COPY aka DATA_SCREEN)
                      - bit 14: (DATA_PACKED)
                      - bit 15: (X_FLIP)
           4       Hot spot information (definition of (0, 0) in the image):
                      - low 2 bytes: x location of hot spot
                        (probably never used)
                      - high 2 bytes: y location of hot spot
                   This is the baseline of a character. The hotspot Y aligns
                   with the baseline of the text.
           4       Image bounds:
                      - low 2 bytes: Image width
                      - low 2 bytes: Image height
           4       Offset from beginning of the char descriptor for this
                   char to the beginning of the frame data.

Frames:
Then for all frames:
           See "Frames" in gfxres.


Initial version 2003-09-02, by Alex Volkov
Frame descriptors and data from gfxres by Serge van den Boom

